.TH LASSO 1 "April 2026" "lasso 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lasso \- harness-agnostic observational memory for coding agents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lasso
.RI [ command ]
.br
.B lasso setup
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B lasso status
.br
.B lasso tui
.RB [ --once ]
.br
.B lasso memory
.RI command
.br
.B lasso lint
.RI command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lasso
stores project-local observational memory for coding agents and helps turn repeated user corrections into durable lint rules.
.PP
State is kept in the current project under
.BR .lasso/ .
The CLI is safe to install globally because config and database files are resolved per project.
.SH INSTALLATION
Install with Bun:
.PP
.nf
.RS
bun install -g @justestif/lasso
.RE
.fi
.PP
Install with npm:
.PP
.nf
.RS
npm install -g @justestif/lasso
.RE
.fi
.PP
Install with Homebrew:
.PP
.nf
.RS
brew tap justEstif/tap
brew install lasso
.RE
.fi
.SH PROJECT SETUP
Run setup from the project root:
.PP
.nf
.RS
lasso setup
.RE
.fi
.PP
This creates:
.PP
.nf
.RS
.lasso/config.json
.pi/extensions/lasso.ts
.RE
.fi
.PP
For Pi, reload extensions after setup:
.PP
.nf
.RS
/reload
.RE
.fi
.SH PATH RESOLUTION
.B lasso
chooses project-local state in this order:
.IP 1. 4
If
.B LASSO_PATH
is set, use it. It may point to either a project root or directly to a
.B .lasso
directory.
.IP 2. 4
Otherwise, walk upward from the current directory until a
.B .lasso/config.json
file is found.
.IP 3. 4
If no project is found, fall back to the current directory.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.nf
.RS
LASSO_PATH=/path/to/project lasso status
LASSO_PATH=/path/to/project/.lasso lasso status
.RE
.fi
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B lasso setup
Set up lasso for the current project and install the Pi adapter by default.
.TP
.B lasso status
Show combined lint and memory observer status.
.TP
.B lasso tui
Open the terminal dashboard.
.TP
.B lasso tui --once
Render one dashboard frame and exit.
.TP
.B lasso enable lint|memory
Enable an observer for the resolved project.
.TP
.B lasso disable lint|memory
Disable an observer for the resolved project.
.SH MEMORY COMMANDS
.TP
.B lasso memory observe --content TEXT
Record a memory observation.
.TP
.B lasso memory reflect --content TEXT
Record a consolidated memory reflection.
.TP
.B lasso memory status
Show memory state.
.TP
.B lasso memory export
Export memory snapshots and reflections as markdown.
.SH LINT COMMANDS
.TP
.B lasso lint scan --input FILE --detector-command COMMAND
Run the lint detector against a transcript.
.TP
.B lasso lint list
List lint entries.
.TP
.B lasso lint show ID
Show one lint entry.
.TP
.B lasso lint accept|reject|defer|implement ID
Transition a lint entry.
.TP
.B lasso lint export
Export lint entries.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LASSO_PATH
Override project path resolution. Set it to a project root or a
.B .lasso
directory.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B .lasso/config.json
Project configuration.
.TP
.B .lasso/db.sqlite
Project SQLite database.
.TP
.B .pi/extensions/lasso.ts
Pi extension installed by
.BR "lasso setup" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bun (1),
.BR npm (1),
.BR brew (1)
